
## 7.6 PUT /fxQuotes/{ID}/error

|Financial Institution to Financial Institution Payment Status Report - **pacs.002.001.15** |
|--|

#### Context
*(DFSP -> FXP, FXP -> DFSP, HUB -> DFSP, HUB -> FXP)*

This is triggered as a callback response to the POST /fxQuotes call when an error occurs. The message is generated by the entity who first encounter the error which can either be the DFSP, the HUB, or the FPX. All other participants involved are informed by this message. The `TxInfAndSts.StsRsnInf.Rsn.Cd` contains the Mojaloop error code, which specified the source and cause of the error.

Here is an example of the message:
```json
{
"GrpHdr": {
    "MsgId":"01JBVM1CGC5A18XQVYYRF68FD1",
    "CreDtTm":"2024-11-04T12:57:45.228Z"},
"TxInfAndSts":{"StsRsnInf":{"Rsn": {"Prtry":"ErrorCode"}}}
}
```
#### Message Details
The details on how to compose and make this API are covered in the following sections:
1. [Core Data Elements](#core-data-elements)<br>This section specifies which fields are required, which fields are optional, and which fields are unsupported in order to meet the message validating requirements.
2. [Header Details](#331-header-details)<br> This general section specifies the header requirements for the API are specified.
3. [Supported HTTP Responses](#332-supported-http-responses)<br> This general section specifies the http responses that must be supported.
4. [Common Error Payload](#333-common-error-payload)<br> This general section specifies the common error payload that is provided in synchronous http error response.

#### Core Data Elements
Here are the core data elements that are needed to meet this market practice requirement.

The background colours indicate the classification of the data element.
{{key}}

Here is the defined core data element table.
{{table}}

