## 7.8 PUT /quotes/{ID}
|Financial Institution to Financial Institution Customer Credit Transfer Quote Response - **pacs.082.001.01**|
|--|

#### Context
*(DFSP -> DFSP)*

This is triggered as a callback response to the POST /quotes call. The message is generated by the payee DFSP and is a message response that includes the transfer terms. The payee DFSP is expected to respond with this message if a terms requested are favorable and the payee DFSP would like to participate in the transaction.

The transfer amounts is specified in the `CdtTrfTxInf.IntrBkSttlmAmt.ActiveCurrencyAndAmount` and the `CdtTrfTxInf.IntrBkSttlmAmt.Ccy` fields. These are clearing amounts and must have fees already included in their calculation.

The `GrpHdr.PmtInstrXpryDtTm` specifies the expiry of the terms presented. It is the responsibility of the payee DFSP to enforce this expiry in the transfer phase of a transaction.

The `CdtTrfTxInf.PmtId.TxId` must reference the message that this is a response to and is the same as what is included in the path as `{ID}`. 

The `CdtTrfTxInf.VrfctnOfTerms.IlpV4PrepPacket` must contain the ILPv4 cryptographically signed packet, which is a cryptographic version of the transfers terms. These are the terms against with the payer DFSP agrees, and against which the non-repudiation of the transfer is base. It is thus important that the payer DFSP inspects these terms.

Here is an example of the message:
```json
{
"GrpHdr": {
    "MsgId": "01JBVM19SPQAQV9EEP0QC1RNAD",
    "CreDtTm": "2024-11-04T12:57:42.455Z",
    "NbOfTxs": "1",
    "SttlmInf": { "SttlmMtd": "CLRG" },
    "PmtInstrXpryDtTm": "2024-11-04T12:58:42.450Z"
},
"CdtTrfTxInf": { 
    "PmtId": { "TxId": "01JBVM19DFKNRWC21FGJNTHRAT" },
    "Dbtr": { "Id": { "PrvtId": { "Othr": { "SchmeNm": { "Prtry": "MSISDN" },
                                            "Id": "16135551001"}}},
        "Name": "Payer Joe" },
    "DbtrAgt": { "FinInstnId": { "Othr": { "Id": "payer-dfsp"}}},
    "Cdtr": { "Id": { "PrvtId": { "Othr": { "SchmeNm": { "Prtry": "MSISDN" },
                                            "Id": "16665551002"}}},
    "CdtrAgt": { "FinInstnId": { "Othr": { "Id": "payee-dfsp"}}},
    "ChrgBr": "CRED",
    "IntrBkSttlmAmt": {
        "Ccy": "MWK",
        "ActiveCurrencyAndAmount": "1080" },
    "InstdAmt": {
        "Ccy": "MWK",
        "ActiveOrHistoricCurrencyAndAmount": "1080" },
    "ChrgsInf": {
        "Amt": { "Ccy": "MWK",
                 "ActiveOrHistoricCurrencyAndAmount": "0" },
        "Agt": { "FinInstnId": { "Othr": { "Id": "payee-dfsp"}}}},
    "VrfctnOfTerms": { "IlpV4PrepPacket": "DIICzQAAAA..." }}}
}
```
#### Message Details
The details on how to compose and make this API are covered in the following sections:
1. [Core Data Elements](#core-data-elements)<br>This section specifies which fields are required, which fields are optional, and which fields are unsupported in order to meet the message validating requirements.
2. [Header Details](#331-header-details)<br> This general section specifies the header requirements for the API are specified.
3. [Supported HTTP Responses](#332-supported-http-responses)<br> This general section specifies the http responses that must be supported.
4. [Common Error Payload](#333-common-error-payload)<br> This general section specifies the common error payload that is provided in synchronous http error response.

#### Core Data Elements
Here are the core data elements that are needed to meet this market practice requirement.

The background colours indicate the classification of the data element.
{{key}}

Here is the defined core data element table.
{{table}}

